The other part that I thought was
very interesting about some work
we had done here is what's called
the traveling salesman problem.
Now this is probably a problem
that's not familiar to many of you.
But it's an old problem
that has been around since
the 1950s where a salesman has to
visit a bunch of different cities.
So on the map of
the United States I'm showing you,
each of those red dots
represents a different
city that a salesman who covers
the United States has to visit.
And the traveling salesmen problem says,
what's the shortest route the salesperson
can take to visit all of those cities.
Cuz obviously the salesperson
doesn't wanna spend time traveling,
they wanna spend time visiting clients.
So you might say what the hell does
this have to do with analytics and
what does it have to do with retailing.
Well, it has everything to do with it.
So what we were interested in is do
people who move more efficiently
throughout a store,
do they buy more or less?
In other words,
do you want efficient shoppers, or
do you want people that wander more?
And again, the reason back to my five
point framework, think about this.
This is data we never had before.
So that's phase one.
Number two, we're now able to create
things like heat maps that allow us to
explore the data, to look at what
fraction of the store is being cover.
Step three,
now we're gonna analyze the data under the
framework of a traveling salesman problem.
And we're gonna look to see,
are certain types of shoppers,
people that are more efficient, in and
out shoppers, are they more valuable to
the firm or less valuable to the firm?
Step four, then I'm gonna talk to you
about who you should be targeting, and
step five, I'm gonna show you
about decision making of the firm.
So this is a great example that has
all five points I was talking about.
So again,
did you can see here on this picture,
let's imagine the green circles represent
the products that the person bought.
The red line on this picture represents
the shortest possible path the person
could have taken to pick up their cart,
buy those products, and check out.
Now let's be clear, this is not
the path any given person took.
This is the shortest possible path they
could have taken and we're interested in
understanding are people that took shorter
paths or not, more valuable to the firm.
So for example,
the path on the A, if you like,
person on the left hand
side of the picture here.
This is a more efficient
shopper than person B.
If you'd like,
person B got all wiggly and jiggly.
Person B didn't just visit parts of the
store where he or she bought stuff, but
did a lot of other
wandering around the store.
Now the question is, which custom
would you rather have, A or B?
Obviously, before I flip to
the truth on the next couple slide,
each of you should be thinking,
do you want to make things efficient for
customers, or do you want people
to do some degree of wandering.
So this is what's called a triangle plot
what's actually interesting here is that,
you can see on the slide it says
the average TSP optimality is 28%.
Now, what does that mean,
it means that about 75%
of all movement inside
a store is not required.
That means people could be spending
one-quarter essentially the amount of
time in the store and
still buy the goods that they bought.
Now the question is, is that good or bad?
So what's neat in this triangle
plot is each of these dot
represents one of about a million
customers that we analyzed and
you can see here that on
the top we have TSP optimal.
So if people were actually moving
in the shortest possible path
you'd see all of these dots
at the top of this triangle.
You don't.
If the right travel deviation,
what does that mean?
It means, for example, in a store, imagine
you should pick up the milk first and
then the cheese and the bread,
but you went bread, milk, cheese.
That's called travel deviation.
That means you went in an efficient way,
but you went in the wrong order.
So think about it as you
have to buy products A,
B, and C, you should go ABC,
but you went CAB.
That's order deviation.
Then travel deviation has to
do with how much jiggliness.
So I'm walking from the milk aisle to
the bread aisle, how much did I jiggle?
How much did I wander off my optimal path?
What you can see here is that most
people aren't optimal shoppers.
And this last piece is now steps four and
five of the framework that I gave you.
The key number is what I'm
telling you in yellow.
Group 4 are people that
go in the wrong order.
And they have the most jiggliness.
And notice those people buy on average
about ten items every time they go to
a store where the people that
are most efficient, which is group 1,
only buy about half as much.
So notice how I've turned new data,
which is where people go
in the store, I've explored that data to
what parts of the store are most valuable.
I've now taken that data and
I've analyzed it through the traveling
salesperson model where I've now looked,
now I can categorize each person as,
are they efficient in how much they
jiggle between points A and B and
do they go in the right order?
And now I've taken it to the action
step where I can see which customers
are more valuable and it turns out, you
don't wanna rush people through the store,
you don't want them to be that efficient.
Now the challenge is,
you have to be able to identify
which types of people are the more
jiggly types, and which people are not.
Unfortunately, this shows you
a limitation in our dataset
we didn't have demographics
about the people.
So we didn't have age, race,
income, gender, urbanicity,
do they live in the urban
neighborhood versus rural.
If you did, you could then start
to say now I see who to target.
Now I know what types
of customers to target.
Unfortunately in this case,
we had good data.
We had data on locations, and
we had the data on purchases, but
we didn't have data on demographics.
There's a great example of how,
without that information.
I've come to a business decision.
I need to find customers that
wander more around the store.
That's great.
That's nice to know.
The next step would be, of course,
knowing who are those customers.
What are their types?
Can I identify them?
Can I target them with
marketing in a different way?
Cuz I'd rather have more of those customer
types than the other customer types.
The next kind of data I'd
like to tell you about,
which is again kind of the future of
marketing science, is eye camera data.
Now you might say, eye camera data?
You mean people walking around
the stores with eye cameras on?
Well, many of you may remember, and
you could call it a failure or not,
on Google Glass, that was Google's
foray into the area of let's
have people where glasses where everything
they're looking at is being tracked.
Now if you had those glasses on,
you could actually track where
people are looking in the store.
We actually did a study of
over 1,000 people where we
had them put on these types of glasses.
And so this was an experiment,
it was a field experiment,
where we actually put these glasses on
people and we track what they look at.
And so you can see a picture of a person
on the left with this eye camera on.
You can see on the right what it
looks like from the eye camera.
And then,
the first thing we wanted to notice.
And I've always wondered this question.
But again without the right analytics and
data, you could never answer it is,
if I'm showing you,
let's say, an orange juice, what's called
the planogram of the orange juice,
where the orange juice sits in the store,
where would you rather be in the store?
Would you rather be up high like
six feet high at the top shelf?
Would you rather be at the bottom shelf,
the middle shelf?
Well, through eye tracking data and
analytics we can now answer this question.
It actually turns out as you can see or
think of this as a heat map
again red hot blue cold.
Turns out the optimal height for
many product categories around 5 foot 6.
You might say, well, why is that?
Well, the average female
height is around 5 foot 6 and
so in many supermarkets where 80
to 90% of the shoppers are female.
You wanna put it at eye height.
People don't like looking down,
people don't like looking up.
People like looking at eye height.
You may also notice in this picture
the left side of the planogram seems to be
a little bit hotter than the right side.
And you might say, wonder why that's true.
Well, we read from left to right.
So we scan from left to right.
So, if you have a choice between being
on the right-hand side of the shelf or
the left-hand side of the shelf, you wanna
be on the left-hand side of the shelf,
because people,
when they walk up to an object,
we scan from left to right cuz
we read from left to right.
We scan at our eye level.
And then sometimes we go up or down if
we don't find the product we want, so
kind of, eye height level on the left-hand
side is the best place to be positioned in
the store and many of you may be working
in industries where you have to pay for
shelf space, so you wanna know
what the ideal shelf space is.
It was through measuring
one customer at a time and
looking at their eye data
that we were able to notice.
For women it's about 5 foot 6, for
men it's about 5 foot 9, its left is
better than right, it's through analytics
that we were able to answer this question.
So the other thing that was
interesting through this, and
this is now to steps four and five.
What's the business
implication of doing this?
So, what I'm now showing you a picture of
is, on the X-axis here, since remember,
we were able to remember what it
is you looked at on the shelf,
not just what you bought, on the X-axis
you see three different variables.
You see, did someone fixate,
look at the product for no times,
they never looked at it,
once or twice or more.
The thing we were interested in
is does in store marketing work?
Are products that are looked
at more bought more?
And what you can see here in the green
line, what we did was we measured people's
fixations through their eye-tracking
device that was on their head,
and we knew how many times you looked at
a given brand, zero, once, twice, or more.
And then when you left the store,
we surveyed you and say,
do you remember seeing that brand?
Now let me say the good
news from the green line.
More views upward sloping,
the more you look at something,
the more you remember seeing it.
I don't know, maybe I'm not gonna
wanna know about a prize for that, but
no one had ever looked at that data
before, so recalls, meaning do you recall
seeing the product, remember, that's
valuable data because just cuz your not
gonna buy that today doesn't mean
your not gonna buy it in the future.
More views, higher recall.
How about consideration,
we also asked people what
brands did you consider buying?
Notice again, an upward sloping curve.
The more you saw a product,
the more you consider buying it.
So this is where things like
banner ads and other stuff,
just putting your name out
in front of people over and
over again not only raises recall,
but it raises consideration.
And lastly, probably the one you might
care about the most is purchase.
There is an upward slope in curve.
It's a little bit flatter.
And this is not surprising.
Some people who view a product
a lot don't necessarily buy it, so
recall and consideration are tremendously
affected by more views, choice less so.
But again, this is the power of analytics
because now again you can start to
say hey, I see there's potential long-run
value of different forms of advertising.
It isn't just in choice.
In fact,
choice may be the last thing to come.
Recall and
consideration are gonna come very quickly,
now that people have seen your ad,
seen your commercial.
Now they're much more likely to
recall it and consider your product.
Hopefully, if your product has good
benefits, people will actually buy it.
So again, this was a great study we did
using data at the individual customer
level measured in store.
So another thing that came from this,
since we also had data on what
people planned to buy and unplanned,
cuz remember from that first slide
I showed you on the in-store data,
we asked people before they went in
the store what do you plan on buying.
It turns out, and
this is the part you can see here,
4.9 out of 8.2 this the number
to me was shocking.
60% of the things people bought in stores,
they went in and
had no intention of buying
when they entered the store.
Now again, how did we answer that through,
when we go back to my
five point framework?
We had data, we knew we wanted to
measure this, so we measured intentions
before they entered the store and
we know what they bought in the store.
It actually turned out that
an also in reverse 40% of
the stuff they planned to buy,
they didn't actually buy.
Now that's kind of a reinforcement
of marketing works.
In other words, you don't always
buy what you intend to buy.
This is a great example of how analytics
can affect in store marketing.
The future of shopping.
Many of you may have already
exhibited this at your local stores,
supermarket stores etc.
But if you don't know about it let
me tell you what's coming soon.
It's something called a media cart.
So imagine walking around your store where
you're putting your stuff in the basket
and imagine the screen in front of you is
now giving you product recommendations.
Like you just put pasta in the cart and
it's saying,
sauce is two aisles down on the right.
Or imagine you bought chips and you say
okay, where do I go get the beer now, and
so imagine just like Amazon does
product recommendations on the web,
imagine product recommendations in real
time based on your physical location and
what you've put in the cart that's coming.
Now, my research would say I
wonder if that's a good thing,
since this may make people
more efficient shoppers and
they may not buy more, but on the other
hand, it may make them come back
to the store more often cuz they
can be more efficient shoppers.
I think the future is wide open, but
you should expect to see things like media
carts in the future, and helping you
if you'd like navigate around stores.